TheFourierTransformAndItsApplications-
Instructor (Brad Osgood):
Okay, we＊re on.
First thing I want to say is that I made a little mistake last time in lecture.
pointed out to me.
 When I was talking about the heat equation; the floorshow was fine,
the discussion was fine,
 but then I said this thing about as T tens to infinity,
temperature tens to zero.
 That wasn＊t right.
said look, the fusion man,
 you don＊t lose anything,
 it just diffuses.
the temperature changes to zero,
or something like that.
But in fact,
 what happens is that as time tens to infinity 每 I forgot 每 technically,
mathematically,
 I forgot about the zero free coefficient,
 which is in the solution,
happens is that as the tens to infinity,
the equated natial distribution of the initial distribution.
post that on the website because I cannot stand the idea that this error is left unfixed.
meant to post that already,
 I just hadn＊t had a chance to do that,
that I made that formal apology and announcement.
 All right?Any questions?
 Anything on anyone＊s mind?
 Other than that, any other corrections?
That＊s a relief.
 All right.All right,
 so today 每 do you have your hand up or are you just sort of resting?
 Oh, no,okay.Last time,
how we＊re going to proceed.
two aspects to it.
the analysis part and the synthesis part of the Fourier coefficient and Fourier series.
So when I talk about the Fourier transform,
together,analysis.limiting case,
 by I mean a non-phenomena as the period tens to infinity.
 All right?
And I took a special case of this,
 or just a case for illustration,
 that is,
some function which dies off eventually so it＊s zero outside some interval,
ultimately we＊re gonna drop that restriction,
what the situation should look like.
 So I＊m going to take the case and,
 again,set up from last time.
 So take a case that looks like this.
 Have some function as F of T,
which is zero outside some interval.
general, but the fact is that it dies off at some point,
image it＊s a very big interval to begin with 每 but finite.
even bigger number 每 Capital T,
 and I look at it from say minus T over T to 2 over T,
that＊s supposed to represent one complete period,
 and then periodize this function.
pattern repeats.
 All right?
So periodize to make periodic of period T.
 So think of T as big,
of T as going off to infinity.
 So I won＊t draw the picture,
 but again,
the same pattern and repeat it over and over again.
All right then,
write down the formula for the Fourier series.
coefficient looks like this:
instead in integrating from 0 over T,
 I integrate over any period,
minus T over 2 to T over 2 and then the formulate is either the minus 2 PI I K over T, T,
that＊s how I wrote it last time,
 FOTDT and the Fourier series,
 that＊s the analysis part,
exponentials are these.
minus infinity to infinity,
 C sub K of each of the 2 PI I,
 K over T, times T. All right?
And what you would like it you would want to take a simple-
a Fourier transform inverse Fourier transform and so on,
quite work.All right,
 so you would like to just let T ten to infinity and low and behold,
has emerged, but it doesn＊t work.
 Doesn＊t quite work.
 All right?So instead,
 it doesn＊t work because you don＊t get anything.
coefficient tens to 0.
 Doesn＊t work because if TK tens to 0 as T tens to infinity.
All right,
 so what you do is a little clues job here,
 it tens to 0 like 1 over T,
talked about last time and I won＊t repeat that argument.
front,
 this interval is bounded if the function is fixed and again,
 if the function is 0,
only in the interval from A to B,
 that＊s ultimately not getting very big,
like 1 over T so you scale up by T.
 All right?Scale up by T.
 And what I mean is,interval,
what＊s going to happen as a transform version of the function,
 not evaluated at K,
although the indexing here is on K,
 really it＊s K over T that＊s the important thing,
right. Again,
 I want to let T ten to infinity so I want to emphasis that connection.
So I want to look at let me just use this notation,
 let me say write 每 F of F,
 add K over T,all right,
 so that＊s a new notation.
of scaled interval as the interval from minus T over T over 2,
 E to the minus 2 PI I,
over T, on to T, F of T, DT.
again because that does come into the coefficient so the Fourier series looks like,
is the sum from 每 I＊ll write it like this 每 K goes minus infinity to infinity,
this coefficient K over T times the complex exponential E to the 2 PI I,
 K over T,
times this factor 1 over T.
occurs in the definition of the Fourier coefficient that I have to have that in there.
 I mean,
the Fourier series is in terms of the Fourier coefficient and the 1 over T is in there.
 Okay?
Now I want to let T ten to infinity.
 This is all heuristic, all right? 
This is not a proof,
an argument for what the formula otta look like as a limiting case of the Fourier series,
the periodic case.
All right so now,
 let T ten to infinity,
formula should look like.
All right I said this last time; I want to say it again.
these numbers,
 K over T, of course for a fixed K,
 that＊s tenning to 0,
is also going from minus infinity to infinity and what＊s happening here is that,
think of K over T as a discrete variable,
variable. All right?
The space keeps getting closer and closer together.
 They＊re spaced 1 over capital T apart.
One over T, 2 over T, 3 over T,
 4 over T and as T is tenning to infinity,
closer and closer together so the discrete variable is approaching for all to see,
continuous variable which I＊ll due note by S.
 All right?
So the discrete variable that＊s not a technical term all right.
futuristically here 每 tens to or placed by,
 in the limit, a continuous variable S.
going to range from minus infinity to infinity.
 All right?Fine. That is to say,
 this formula,by another formula.
So you write, FO, F of S,
 as the interval from minus infinity to infinity,
PI I S T,
 so K over T again is being replaced by the continuous variable S,
 F of T, D T.
But don＊t stop there,
infinity and for the Fourier series,
 which is here,
as a sum approximating interval.
 All right?K over T,
continuous variable.
 The 1 over T here is like the Delta S,
an approximating sum into an interval.
So as T tens to infinity,
 what happens to the Fourier series,
 it is replaced by an integral.
Replaced by the integral from my 每 replaced by this formula; replaced by F of T,
interval for minus infinity to infinity,
 E to the plus,
 2 PI I over 每 I＊ll write it like this,
keep the same order of the terms 每 the Fourier transform of F,
I＊m going to now call the Fourier transform,
 in just a second 每 F of 每 this,
transform of at S,
 either the 2 PI I S T D S.
 Okay?Now,
 I really feel like the clouds otta open up at this point because something really,
momentous has happened here,
 if only by analogy.
 All right,
argument saying you want to view a non-
periodic phenomena,
 this is one way of doing that,
to spend the rest of the quarter convincing you is a good thing.
All right let me say a little bit more here,
studied.
 The final step in the process is to declare victory,
 that is to say,
and where the hell do these formulas come from and so on and so on.
You sort of erase all paths of discovery and you just declare 每 what do you know,
going to give the following definition 每 how about that?
 And that＊s exactly what happens,
so that＊s what we do now.
 We sort of declare victory.
I wanted to 每 I didn＊t want you to miss the steps in between.
over here,
 I＊m making our victory blackboard over here.
going over formulas and facts,
mathematics develops in the context of these problems.
 All right because,
get used to thinking that way,
your own head,
 using your own thoughts.
ultimately results in a definition.
 All right,
steps along the way are often hidden and I wanted not to hide them.
All right,
 so we define 每 at this point I usually say,
function defined on a whole real line,
 from minus infinity less than T less than infinity,
you define its Fourier transform by the formula that I just wrote down.
The Fourier transform at S is this interval 每 minus infinity to infinity,
I S T , F of T, D T. All right?
So here,exponential here.
I didn＊t say whether or not F had to be real or complex,
 as a matter of fact, in general,
don＊t want to make that a 每 I want to allow either case.
 All right?
many application because of course,
 F is a real signal and that＊s fine,
 but it makes sense,
as far as the definition goes,
 to allow F to be either real or complex.
more about that.
Now there＊s a lot 每 of course,
 there＊s a lot more to say about the definition.
that should be stated right up front and something I＊ll say more details about later is,
course,
 this definition is only good if the interval makes sense.
 All right?
To write down this interval,
 saying this is the Fourier transform,
 but you,
to actually carry out this innovation for a particular value of S,
 you know,
something about when the interval converges.
 All right?
So you need to say something.
 We＊ll need to understand the conversions of the interval.
Just like we needed to understand the conversions of the Fourier series,
Fourier transform.
All right, and that＊s an issues, right?
But not only have we been led to the Fourier transform,
Fourier inversion.
 This is analysis 每 all right.
signal, the non-periodic signal into its component parts.
 What are the component parts?
The component parts are a continuous family of exponentials.
complex exponentials but a continuous family of exponentials that equal the 2 PI I S T.
All right?
The Fourier transform analyses F of T into its constituent parts.
But now we also have Fourier inversion.
the function from its constituent parts.
 And that＊s the second formula there.
if you know the Fourier transform then you can get back the function.
 That is,of T,this 每 either the 2 PI I S T,
 the Fourier transform at S, D S.
frequency domain.
You can think about it that way but you don＊t always think about it that way,
come back to that as well.
All right, so you think of generally F of T in the time domain,
in the frequency domain that is to say you think of T as a time variable,
not willing to change your prospective.
All right, the Fourier transform is a very flexible tool,
contexts, T is not always time,
you force yourself into thinking only in those terms.
 All right?
applications but not for all applications.
You will hear me say a lot, you will hear me rant,
 you know,notation goes,
 as far as interpretation goes.
 Part of that is just because the richness of it.
All right,
 it＊s a very rich subject and any rich subject can be abused in various ways,
right.
 And this is 每 I would say not only no exception to that,
the abuse that can be heaved onto different symbols and their interpretation.
Okay now,of the universe.
your lives, certainly in this class,
 is that every signal has a spectrum 每 you call S,
frequency domain or you call the value of the Fourier transform the spectrum.
 All right?
And it＊s a term I＊m sure you＊re familiar with.
So if I can summarize this,
appear on YouTube all around the world.
spectrum determines the signal.
All right,
 to say that every signal like all secrets of the universe,
too broad of brush. All right?
 To say that every signal has a spectrum is,
Fourier transform, but of course,
 there are issues there.
and so on. All right,
invert it like this,
 it means in particular that this interval always exists.
 All right,
that＊s 每 there are also issues associated with that.
 But never mind that.
concentrate on the majesty and really,
statement, all right?
 For most cases,
 and for the cases that you＊re certainly interested in,
this or some version of this is true and can be a guide to happiness.
 Okay?The Fourier transform,
the same thing.
 You can look at the function in the frequency domain,
in terms of its Fourier transform or you can look at it in the time domain.
recover it from its spectrum.
All right,
representations of the same thing,
 you have tremendous power over it.
 All right?equivalent.
 Knowledge of one is equivalent to knowledge of the other.
You will not get anything more profound,
 I think in any class,
 anywhere, anything.about that?
 That＊s a way to start the weekend off.
All right now,
it although I＊m not going to make much more use of it today,
some use of it later,
 and that has to do with this sort of inversion formula here.
That is,
 it pays to introduce a separate operator along with the Fourier transform,
the inverse Fourier transform,
of sign. So it＊s useful 每 so again,
minus infinity to infinity of either the minus 2 PI I S T,
 F of T, D T, all right.
sometimes called the forward Fourier transform.
 Again, I won＊t take up your time.
It＊s also useful to introduce the so-
function G.
 As the interval from minus infinity to infinity of either the plus 2 PI I S T,
G of S D S.
 All right,
 now be careful about how the variable 每 then this result,
inverse operator of this.
All right,
transform for the Fourier transform of a function is the function.
 And it also says,matter,
 if I take the Fourier transform of the inverse Fourier transform of a function,
back the function. Okay?
Now again,
 I don＊t want to get too far on a rant now,
 but, just to start,
a little warning of the things to come.
 You have to careful how you look at his,
the role of the variables here.
 This 每 take a look at the definition of the Fourier transform,
all right,function of T,
 you＊re integrating with respect to T,
 what remains as a function of S.
Right? That＊s why I call 每 use the notation,
 the Fourier transform of F at S.
operation taking the Fourier transform evaluated at the point S.
All right,
 the operation is carrying out this integration but in order to write that down,
have to evaluate it at a point.
 So you＊re evaluating at a point S,
 it＊s given by this formula.
Likewise,
 for the inverse Fourier transform,
 I＊m integrating either the 2 PI I S T,
function of two variables, S and T.
 If I integrate against the function of S,
a function of T.
 It＊s inverse Fourier operation,
function of S and T against the function of S integrating with respect to S.
 All right?
So note two values here actually.
All right notice,
 that the Fourier transform at 0,
transform and then as the operation starts [inaudible] of evaluating at a point,
Fourier transform of F at 0 is the interval for minus infinity to infinity,
PI I 0 times T,
 F of T, D T.
 I plug in S equals 0 into the formula.
And so that＊s just the interval from F E average value of the function,
consider the average value of the function,
 F of T D T.
the length of the interval because the interval＊s infinite.
 All right,
the functions of the area under the curve if you want to think of it that way.
 All right?
So the 0 Fourier,
 the value of the Fourier transform of 0 is the interval of the function.
This is analogous to the 0 Fourier coefficient being the average value of the function.
interval over one period.
 Here, I don＊t have a period.
And likewise,
 by the same token,
 the inverse Fourier transform of a function at 0,
 G at 0,
is the interval for minus infinity to infinity.
the 0 每 I＊m not writing at this time,
minus infinity to infinity of the Fourier transform,
transform at the origin.
 Okay?You have to always tell yourself,
 and be clear,expressions.
 Trust me, it becomes an issues.
complicated, as they will,
something that you have to be careful about.
 Something you have to be careful about.
Okay now, so we＊ve gotten to the stars of the show.
 The Fourier transform,
Fourier transform,
 and the idea of Fourier inversion.
the rest of the quarter to convince you that this was worth it.
 All right?That is,
that is worthwhile in,
 certainly in applications.
 But not just in application,
applications.
I want to tell you how we＊re going to proceed.
 Actually,develop the ideas here in a way very much like,
 in a path,
followed when you were first learning calculus.
 All right?happy days,
 when the world was new; calculus was just an attraction on the horizon.
When you＊re learning calculus,
intervals,
 all right; two basic operations of calculus.
learned general 每 you learned specific formulas like derivatives of exponentials,
derivatives of polynomial derivative functions.
intervals and then you learned general properties.
 You learned how to differentiate,
learned the product rule,
 the chain rule,
 integration by parts,
formulas that are going to come up,
differentiate a specific function.
But functions come up in combinations,
 products, quotions, compositions,
learn, also, general rules for taking derivatives.
 You had to learn the product rule,
chain rule and so on.
And then, of course,
 you learned the applications of derivatives and intervals.
 All right?
Now also in connection with the Fourier transform,
 let me call your attention to a fact,
a problem or a challenge you face in calculus.
 The interval＊s a very rich operation.
come back this and I＊ll say this again later,
learn the certain interpretation of the interval.
 You learn that usually,
motivating [inaudible],
 the interval＊s the area under the curve,
change in the function from its rate of change or so on.
really be a guide,
 or won＊t really apply.
Well again,
 as I was just saying a minute ago,
Fourier transform and the inverse Fourier transform.
variables often have certain interpretations,
 time or frequency.
don＊t necessarily belong.
However,
 we＊re going to follow a similar path to the one 每 in or however,
the Fourier transform.
That is,
 we＊re going to need to develop specific transforms.
signals.
 The kind of signals society needs.
 Right?
 That society runs on.
And then we＊re going to develop general properties of the Fourier transform.
 That is,
what to do when signals are combined in certain ways.
combined is a richer 每 in many cases 每 the richer operation,
than the ordinary functions of 每 that you work with in calculus,
calculus.Then, of course,
 we＊re going to talk about a lot of applications of these ideas.
similar in the pass somehow,
 to the way that you study calculus.
because I hope it give you a way to sort of organizing your own study oven.
 I realize,each stage,
 here I＊m learning a specific formula; here I＊m learning a general formula,
so on.
 It will help 每 and here I＊m learning application,
case and this is the interpretation in that case.
 It will help you, I hope,
in your head, how the subject is evolving.
 Okay?All right,
 so let＊s look at a few 每 let＊s start on that path and let＊s look at a few examples.
Basic examples; that is calculations with a Fourier transform.
 Now,
a few of these because unlike calculus 每 when you first learned calculus,
 you＊re teacher,hope, you know,
because all was new.
 All right,
 I＊m not going to do that now.
specific calculations to show you the kind of techniques that always come in,
come in,
 but you can read the derivations,
 you can do the derivations,
techniques involved there.
 All right,
 the only techniques are integration,
by substitution or integration by parts,
 direct integration, whatever.
That＊s not new,
 what＊s new are the specific formulas that come up and that＊s something,
again,
 that I am going to leave to you to read,
 derive, learn, memorize, whatever.right?
because there,
 there are some new things.
haven＊t seen before,
 or haven＊t seen other than in this context.
So the first example I want to take is the very simplest one,
actually in harder problems,
the function that models a signal that＊s on again and off again.
 Or in this case,
not looking at the periodic version,
 it＊s just either on or off.
rectangle function.
 PI of X,advocated by Bracewell,
 it＊s not bad.
 I＊ll explain 每 actually I＊ll call it variable T,
 why not.
I＊ll tell you Y uses the notations to the second.
and it is 0 if absolute value of T is greater or equal to 1.
So it＊s graph,
 as defined for all values of T 每 and here＊s 0 每 excuse me,
and here＊s the 1.
 So, it＊s actually 每 yeah?
[Inaudible] careful here,
 no,
convention here.
 I＊m sorry.
 I want it to be of Width 1,
 not Width 2.
 So I＊m going take .,.,
 see,
 I already messed it up.
 Damn.Okay,
 it has total width 1,
 so it goes from minus to .
 to plus to ..
is discontinuous at the end points.
 All right?
. and minus . excuse me,
 it＊s 1 between the end points and it＊s 0 outside the endpoints.
Now,
 this is not 每 and it＊s called PI because PI looks like a rectangle.
 I think it＊s stupid,
and I feel really,
 I feel so juvenile saying that,
top-hat function because it＊s supposed to look like a top hat.
 As it goes up, up, up,
looks like a rectangle.
 So it＊s also called,
 more grandly,
characteristic function of the interval from minus .
 to ..
indicator function of the interval from minus .
 to ..
 All these terminologies are in day-
to-day use.
 All right,
 depending on the field.
function so I always tend to call it the characteristic function but I won＊t do that anymore,
I＊m going to call it the rectangle function.
And there＊s also a certain amount of debate about how to define it at the endpoints.
right, I define it a certain way at the end points.
 Other people would define it differently.
Other people would have it to be 1 at the end points.
Value . at the end points.
look at the average value.
 This becomes a religious issue with some people.
function should be defined at the end points.
 I do not want to get dragged into it.
never make any difference for anything we ever do.
 All right, so this is my definition.
you don＊t like it,
 go to hell.All right,
 so what is the Fourier transform?
Fourier transform is the definition.
 All right,
 there＊s nothing else to work with.
 So,have to carry out the integration.
 One has to carry out the integration,
 I should say.
what does one do?
 One writes the definition down.
infinity,
 E to the minus 2 PI I S T, PI of S,
 D, PI of T, D T.
we＊re using here.
 I＊m sorry,
 I＊ve already got myself a little crowded.
The interval once again,
 the interval for minus infinity to infinity,
T , PI of T, D T. Okay?
All right now,
 PI T is only non 0 from minus .
 to ..in the interval,
 it＊s not a infinite interval,
is 0 outside that interval so it＊s the interval from minus .
 to .D T.
 You integrate that like you integrate any exponential,
number is in there does not matter.
ordinary integration in calculus.
So that is minus 1 over 2 PI I S,
 you＊re integrating with respect to T.
S, which essentially is a constant as far as the integration is concerned.
over 2 PI I S,
 either the minus 2 PI I S T,
 evaluated between T equals minus .
equals plus a .. All right,
 that＊s the only thing you can do.
recourse here other than to use the definition.
 Let＊s do it, quickly.
So that is 每 what do I get?
 I get, at the top end point,
 I get minus 1 over 2 PI I S,
minus 2 PI I S times .
 minus, minus 1 over 2 PI I S.
here is, you know,
 like minus signs and things like that.
have problems keeping straight in calculus,
 well, I＊m sorry,
 they haven＊t gone away.
same sort of issues are there.
Minus 1 over 2 PI S E to the minus 2 PI I S minus .,
 so that＊s minus 1 over 2 PI I S,
the minus PI I S,
 minus a minus gives me a plus,
 1 over 2 PI I S,
because we plus,
 PI I S.
 Or if you＊ll allow me to write that differently,
 that is 1 over PI S,
1 over 2 I, well I guess,
 either PI I S minus either the minus PI S divided by 2 I.
complex exponentials to bring in,
 when called for,
 the ordinary true functions,
cosigns.
 And the PI I S minus the minus PI I S over 2 I is the sign of PI S.
of PI I S divided by PI S and that＊s the formula for the Fourier transform,
 period. Okay?
This is the most basic example and actually,
 as simple as it is,
most important examples.
 It＊s one of the ones that comes up most often in applications.
So write it down.
The Fourier transform of PI,
this function comes up so often in applications it is given a special name,
sync function.
 So by definition,
 the sync function of S is sign of PI S divided by PI S.
Now that＊s a function actually,
 I＊m sure any electrical engineer has seen this function,
every electrical engineer, in fact,
 sees this function in their dreams.
sign of X over X; a famous limit.
 You know,
 what happens if X tens to 0.1,
 so this function is actually quite nice.
the graph looks something like this.
 It dies off; it dies off like 1 over S.
 It＊s symmetric,
it＊s an even function.
 That＊s a damn good sync function if I do say so myself.
So here＊s 0, 1, 2, 3,
 it has zeros at the integers.
 Minus 1, well,
 that＊s not so good I guess,actually.
 It＊s supposed to be even.
 Minus 1, minus 2 and so on.
 Okay?Now, you can look in the book.
 I have a picture of the sync function,
pictures of the sync function,
Sunnydale,
 driving down to Sunnydale,
 going to the Fry＊s in Sunnydale,
Fry＊s in Sunnydale has an enormous neon sync function.
 All right, in living color.
incredible.
 You go into that store and you see sync functions everywhere.
 Right,
on all the railings,
 they＊re on the turn styles,
 I mean, it＊s a nightmare.
 All right,
there is a picture 每 I saw it and I couldn＊t believe it 每 there is a picture of it in the book.
All right?
Every electrical engineer knows this function.
 Mathematicians think sign of X over X,
what is the big deal you know,
 but in fact,
on this stupid function.
So go down to Fry＊s,
 see it live.
looking at it.
 You know,out saying,
 can I help you,
 customer service, you know.
 What can I do,
return something?
All right, who has been to that Fry＊s,
 by the way? Okay,
 I＊m not making this up right?
Yeah, but for the rest of you,
 oh what a treat you have in store.
All right, let me look at a couple of examples,
 all right. Because all I want to do,
show you that again,
 you have no recourse other than the definitions so,
compute a specific a specific Fourier transform,
than not,
 it＊s just a question of carrying out the integration.
 So all those, you know, 
hard-won skills of integration,
 by parts integration,
 but substitution and things like that,
transforms.But again,
 it like, you know, tables of intervals.
 People have done this so the,
 you know,
the collective hard-won experience is already out there,
amount of it.
have the confidence in doing the calculations,
 just so you see how it goes.
So related actually to the rectangle function,
 is the triangle function,
homework set that everybody loved so much.
than or equal to 1 and it looks like this.
 The graph looks like this.
function because the graph looks like a triangle.
minus 1 to 1 and then it goes up the slope 1 up to a height of 1.
 Okay? Nothing to it,
simple function.
But it＊s a very important function in itself.
 What about its Fourier transform?
Fourier transform of the triangle function,
 evaluated S,
infinity to infinity of either the minus 2 PI I S T [inaudible] of T,
 D T.step, all right.
 Write that down so you realize what you have to write next.
to write next depends on how the function is defined.
about but the function comes in two pieces.
minus 1 to 0 and on the interval from 0 to 1.
 And they have to be treated separately.
minus 1 to 0,
 with 1 minus absolute value of T,
 T is negative there so it＊s 1 plus T,
 D T,and then on the interval from 0 to 1,
the triangle function on that interval which is 1 minus T.
 You cannot avoid this.
 All right,
you cannot combine these intervals.
Well, you can do a little bit,
 you know,
 but basically you cannot combine these intervals.
You have to do the intervals separately.
So how do you do them?
 Well, I＊m not going to carry it out into detail,
just enough so you get a feeling for the kind of calculations that you have to do.
those calculations when you＊re calculating Fourier coefficients,
techniques that are in play here.
 All right,
 and in this case,parts.
 All right?
 That＊s what comes up.
So let me remind you the formula for integration by parts.
 Integral from A to B of U D V.
This is everybody＊s favorite.
 It is UV,
integration by parts looks like for definite intervals,
divided by between A and B minus integral from A to B of V D U.
that means.
 What that means is that in your integrand,
 you＊re original interval,
calculus,
 but that＊s what you have to do.
 All right?
So what do you do in this case?
 So let＊s just look at the first interval,
up.S T , D T.
 So looking at this you have to decide,
decide what is U.
 What is DV and what are the consequences of that.
 All right?
Well let me tell you.
 All right,
 U in this case,
 you take to be 1 plus T,
be E to the minus 2 PI I S T,
 DT. All right,
 you do that because you look ahead,
interval because then D is just going to be DT.
 DU is DT,the minus 2 PI S T,
 V is equal to,
regarding S as a constant so it＊s minus 1 over 2 PI I S,
 either the minus 2 PI I S T.
I love to integrate.
 I spent a lot of weekend home alone.
 You know, just integrating.
It＊s a great ice breaker at parties.
 Do you like integration by parts?
 I do.So if you do this,
 then it becomes 每 then the interval from minus 1 to 0 of 1 plus T,
the minus 2 PI S T,
 D T becomes U V,
the minus 2 PI I S T,
 evaluated between minus 1 and zero,
 all right?
from minus 1 to 0 of VDU,
 which is V is minus 1 over 2 PI I S,
and DU is just DT.
 All right,
integral of a complex exponential.
here, okay?
 That S is a constant out there.
 I have this right don＊t I?
 Yeah.Okay now,
 I＊m not going to take it from here.
 I love to integrate,
 but not public,
not carry this out any further but let me tell you what happened.
 You can, all right,
you probably should.
 I think it＊s carried out a little bit more in the notes.
the same thing,
 same thing for the other integral.
 The two integrals,this.
 All right, tough break,
 but it＊s just the way it is.
and what do you get?
 So you get,
 it＊s quite a nice formula actually.
 You get,the day, it.
divided by PI squared,
 S squared. That is to say,
 it is sync squared of S.
 Isn＊t that cool?
The Fourier transform of the triangle function is sync squared.
Now in fact 每 so once again,
squared S. All right now,
 that＊s its sort of fun if you like that sort of thing,
emerging from this picture,
 but I＊m not going to do that.
 I＊m not going to do that.
going to carry it out.
In fact, we will, next week,
 actually see a different reason why this is true.
 I mean,actually not a shock.
 There＊s a deeper reason why this is true,
convolution.
 But that＊s a little bit in the future,
calculation, by no more than that.
 And again,
 for many Fourier transforms,answer for,
 you have no recourse other than to carry out the integration to actually do it.
All right?
Again, you should do a certain amount of that,
when you have to do that.
 All right, no numerical work,
 mat-lab won＊t do it for you,
know you won＊t be able to find it in a particular table; you have to carry it out.
again,
 the techniques are usually not beyond what you＊ve already done.
involving either integration by substitution,
 integration by parts,
 something like that.
That＊s all that＊s involved here,
the same, involves the same sort of steps,
real case when you were just learning ordinary calculus.
 All right?
I will wrap it up there and then on Monday,
go on our path.
Thank you all,
 have a good weekend.
Duration:
